ls — List directory contents
  ex: ls /home/Documents     lists the content of the directory of Documents
      ls -a                  lists ALL the content of Documents
      ls -l                  lists contents with read,write.. access
      
      "A lot of times, you’ll be working in a directory and you’ll need to know what files are located there. The ls command allows you to quickly view all files within the specified directory."
      
echo — Prints text to the terminal window
      "prints text to the terminal window and is typically used in shell scripts and batch files to output status text to the screen or a computer file."

touch — Creates a file
      "touch is going to be the easiest way to create new files, but it can also be used to change timestamps on files and/or directories."

mkdir — Create a directory
  ex: mkdir dir_name
      "Any number of directories can be created simultaneously which can greatly speed up the process."

grep — search
  ex: "This is used to search text for patterns specified by the user."
  
man — Print manual or get help for a command
      "For example, if you didn’t know what the command rmdir does, you could use the man command to find that out."
    
pwd — Print working directory
      "pwd is used to print the current directory you’re in. As an example, if you have multiple terminals going and you need to remember the exact directory you’re working within, then pwd will tell you."
      
cd — Change directory
      "cd will change the directory you’re in so that you can get info, manipulate, read, etc. the different files and directories in your system."
      
      
mv — Move or rename directory
      "mv — Move or rename directory"

rmdir — Remove directory
      "rmdir will remove empty directories. This can help clean up space on your computer and keep files and folders organized. It’s important to note that there are two ways to remove directories: rm and rmdir. The distinction between the two is that rmdir will only delete empty directories, whereas rm will remove directories and files regardless if they contain data or not."
     
locate — Locate a specific file or directory
      "This is by far the simplest way to find a file or directory. You can keep your search broad if you don’t know what exactly it is you’re looking for, or you can narrow the scope by using wildcards or regular expressions."
      
      
less — view the contents of a text file
      "The less command allows you to view files without opening an editor. It’s faster to use, and there’s no chance of you inadvertently modifying the file."


cat — Read a file, create a file, and concatenate files
      "cat is one of the more versatile commands and serves three main functions: displaying them, combining copies of them, and creating new ones."

| — Pipe
      "A pipe takes the standard output of one command and passes it as the input to another."
      
head — Read the start of a file
      "By default, the head command displays the first 10 lines of a file. There are times when you may need to quickly look at a few lines in a file and head allows you to do that. A typical example of when you’d want to use head is when you need to analyze logs or text files that change frequently."

tail — Read the end of a file
      "By default, the tail command displays the last 10 lines of a file. There are times when you may need to quickly look at a few lines in a file and tail allows you to do that. A typical example of when you’d want to use tail is when you need to analyze logs or text files that change frequently."

chmod — Sets the file permissions flag on a file or folder
      "There are situations that you’ll come across where you or a colleague will try to upload a file or modify a document and you receive an error because you don’t have access. The quick fix for this is to use chmod. "
      
